Docs: Experiment metrics (#10349)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/metrics.mdx

---
title: Experiment metrics
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

> After creating an experiment, you need a goal to track your experiment's impact and if your results are [statistically significant](/docs/experiments/significance). This is done with **metrics**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created your experiment, you can assign metrics to let you evaluate your experiment's impact and determine if the observed results are [statistically significant](/docs/experiments/significance).
```

## Primary and secondary metrics

Each metric can be set as either a **primary** or **secondary** metric. You can set up to 10 primary and secondary metrics per experiment.

**Primary metrics** represent the main goal of your experiment. They directly measure if your hypothesis was successful and are the key factor in deciding if the test achieved its primary objective.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_01_14_at_10_17_53_2x_928092c2ee.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_01_14_at_10_17_22_2x_e0b179b143.png"
    alt="Primary metrics in PostHog experiments"
    classes="rounded"
/>

> **Secondary metrics** provide more context for your experiment. They can help you understand the impact of your primary metric and ensure your experiment didn't have negative side effects.

Reviewer 2: Exciting!

Once added and data starts being collected, we show the results as a credible interval bar chart along with details about significance, win probability, and delta between variants.

### How to read credible interval bar charts

Each bar shows how a variant is performing compared to the control (the gray bar) for the metric, using a 95% credible interval. That means there's a 95% chance the true difference for that variant falls within this range. The vertical "0%" line is your baseline:

- To the right (green): The metric is higher (an improvement).
- To the left (red): The metric is lower (a decrease).

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_01_14_at_11_19_24_2x_3cadbb532c.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Clean_Shot_2025_01_14_at_11_19_43_2x_730755c2c5.png"
    alt="Credible interval bar chart"
    classes="rounded"
/>

The width of the bar represents uncertainty. A narrower bar means we're more confident in that result, while a wider bar means it could shift either way.

> The control (baseline) is always shown in gray. Other bars will be green or red—or even a mix—depending on whether the change is positive or negative.

Reviewer: Good explanation!

Author: I copied the one from in-app lol

> ## Shared metrics

Reviewer: What do you think about putting "Shared metrics" on a separate page so it's visible in the navigation? Not a strong opinion, though.

Author: There is too little here at the moment I think. If/when there are some more shared metrics features, we can split it out.

Reviewer: Sounds good

> Shared metrics are ones that can be easily reused across experiments. This is ideal for key company metrics like conversion, revenue, churn, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a shared metric to easily reuse a funnel or a trend metric across experiments. This is ideal for key company metrics like conversion, revenue, churn, and more.
```

> To create one, go to the [shared metrics tab](https://us.posthog.com/experiments/shared-metrics) and click **New shared metric**. From here, they are created the same way as one-off metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create one, go to the [shared metrics tab](https://us.posthog.com/experiments/shared-metrics) and click **New shared metric**. From here, they are created the same way as single-use metrics.
```
